## Intro to S3 in AWS

### Description

- `s3` is a storage service within Amazon Web Services (AWS). It stands for `Simple Storage Service` and has the ability for an end user to maintain long-term storage and short-term storage with quick retrieval over the internet using protocols such as `HTTP` and a separate protocol for `S3`.

### AWS Console

- You have to set up a specific role within your AWS account that allows you to administrate S3. Roles for S3 basically come down to a concept in AWS known as a `policy`. There are policies related to `reading` from S3 and also `writing` from S3. As a shortcut, it is possible to be an administrator in s3 to get both `read` and `write` access from the policies.

- The above role / policies are setup using a service called `IAM`. IAM stands for Identity and Access Management.

### Terminology

- `Bucket`: Location where objects or folders of objects can be stored.
- `Prefix`: Sub-folder that exists within a `bucket`. The sub-folder can contain other sub-folders or objects.
- `Object` : Any file that is stored within `S3` is referred to as an object.

### Public Access

- By default, `public access` to S3 objects is actually blocked. In order to make objects public, you have to utilize a system in AWS known as an `ACL`. The `ACL` stands for `Access Control List`.

- The Access Control List gives you the permission to designate who is allowed to read / write objects that exist in a bucket. Each `bucket` contains its own `ACL`.

### Usage

- Within the AWS Console, go to the Search Bar.

1. Type in `S3`.

2. Select `Buckets`.

3. Choose `Create a Bucket`.

4. Follow through the creation wizard to setup your bucket.

- Guidelines:

- Use `-` between words since `_` is not allowed in AWS.

### Resources

- [S3 Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/s3/index.html)
